This video is a follow up to the previous video where I'm going to go through two exercises for the
greatest common denominator.
So if you haven't watched the previous video, then you might want to go back and consult that one before
going through the exercise
in this video.
All right.
So here is your first exercise. What you want to do is use symbolic variables so that means the sympy
module, to illustrate this property of the greatest common denominator. So the property is that C
times or the greatest common denominator between C times A and C times B is the same thing as c times
the greatest common denominator between A and B. So C A and B are all integers but in this case you want
to show illustrate this in the general case.
That means using symbolic variables and that means that you should use the G C D function not in the
math module but in the sympy module.
Okay.
Once you've shown this for these letters, these symbolic variables, then you can go back and pick some
numbers -- three integers -- and show an example with those numbers that you get the same result for this
versus this.
So that is exercise 1.
Exercise 2 is to create a matrix and in particular you want to create a matrix that contains 10 rows
and 15 columns.
And initially you want to set every element in that 10 by 15 matrix to be ninety nine.
So every element in the matrix will be ninety nine. And then you want to populate the matrix.
So you have to do this in a double for loop such that the element in the i-th row and the j-th column
of The Matrix corresponds to the greatest common denominator between i plus 1 and j plus 1.
So the row index plus 1 and the column index plus 1.
All right so pause the video.
Have a go at both of these two exercises.
And when you're ready to watch me solve these exercises, then come back to the video.
All right.
So I already mentioned that we are going to need the sympy toolbox. So let's import sympy as sym
and I run this cell again and then... let's see, I think I'll actually just delete all of this stuff
so we can start from a fresh screen like this.
So I'm going to begin by creating three symbolic variables A B and C so A B and C equals Sim dot symbols
and then A space B space
C. Okay so now we want to say sym dot greatest common denominator of A times C and B times C and let's
see what that gives us.
So that gives us c.
So the thing is we don't already know at this point what a b and c are.
However sympy is seeing that it is pretty clear that C is multiplying both a and b.
So that's the greatest common denominator that we can come up with given that we don't have any particular
values for a and b.
Okay.
Now I'm actually going to encase this in a print function. And now what we want to do is write print
and then sym dot G C D just with A and B.
And now here the answer is 1.
And again that's because we haven't given sympy enough information and so sympy doesn't have any
specific values defined for A and B.
So therefore you can already guess that when we multiply this by C the answer is going to be C.
All right.
So this was for the general case using symbolic variables.
And now I want to repeat this with real numbers.
Let's say A equals, how about 5. And then I'll make B six and C equals seven. I meant to make this six like
that.
Okay.
And now this is going to be almost the same thing as what I have here except now because these are real
numbers.
These are not symbolic variables. I'm going to use the math module instead of the symbolic module.
Okay.
And here in both cases we get seven.
Now maybe you think that's a little trivial because there actually are no common multiples of five and
six other than one.
So let's make this 15 and six that was like one of the examples that I used in the previous video.
So here we get one.
Maybe we can change this to two.
The answer is six and maybe three.
And here the answer is nine.
In both cases so whatever I do with these numbers we seem to get the same answer for both of these and
this confirms the property of the greatest common denominator that I showed in the slides.
All right.
Very good.
Now for the second exercise.
Now here we need to create a matrix.
And so to do that I'm going to actually use the numpy module.
So let's say import numpyi as np.
Run this cell again.
And let's see.
So the first step is to create the matrix.
I'm going to specify the sizes: it was 10 rows and 15 columns.
Now we need to create a matrix.
Let's call this G C D mat for greatest common denominator matrix.
So I'm going to set this equal to numpy dot zeroes in here.
I want this matrix to be an n by M matrix.
And so let's see what this thing looks like.
All right.
So this is a matrix.
It looks plausibly like it's 10 by 15.
However these are all zeros.
That's no surprise because I used the function zeros, but the instructions pretty clearly said that
every element should be equal to ninety nine.
Now there is no function numpy dot ninety nine, nor is there a function nine nine like this.
Nor for that matter is there a German function
nein nein ;)
Okay.
So we have numpy dot zeros.
So basically what I'm gonna do is just say plus ninety nine. And now we get a matrix full of ninety nines.
All right.
So that completes that part.
And now what we need to do is write a double for loop and populate each element or define each element
of this matrix to be the greatest common denominator between the row index and the column index.
So let's say for i in range 0 to n and for j in range 0 to M. And actually, I'm going to change this.
This is going to be the row index and this is going to be the column index.
Okay.
These variable names are a little bit better than i and j,
Because they tell us about what we are using these variables for.
So they're a little bit more informative.
So G C D mat and then we want the row i and the col i-th column equals math dot greatest common
denominator between row i plus one and col i plus 1.
All right so let's see.
Okay.
So I ran this cell and we got no errors but also nothing printed out. It'd be nice to have a look
at this.
Now you saw that this didn't really look so good.
Actually, now it looks better that we don't have ninety nines in it. But still, I'm going to use the display math
functions to make this look a little bit nicer.
So we need to convert this into latex. sym dot latex is expecting a sympy object as an input. So therefore
we need to use sympify to convert this matrix from a numpy array into a sympy object.
This is starting to look good.
Now all the ninety nines went away of course, but that's no big deal.
In fact the only reason why I made this part of the assignment is just to illustrate to you how to initialize
a matrix that is not only zeros or only ones, because there's a corresponding function called ones.
So it's kind of an interesting function. If you look down this diagonal here you'll see it goes zero
and then two three four five six seven eight nine ten.
And then there's a lot of ones around here and there's some other numbers like twos and threes and fours.
In fact if you make an image of this matrix then it has a pretty interesting visual appearance.
Now I haven't yet told you how to make images out of matrices but don't worry that's coming up in the
later part of the course; you will be able to convert a matrix like this into a picture.
All right.
So in this and the previous videos you gained some more experience with the greatest common denominator
as well as working with matrices and populating matrices with the results of mathematical formulas.